


Human Anatomy and Physiology I with Lab SC1
	
Course Syllabus
General Course Information
Course Number and Section:  BIO 2101-1N1/1N2 (CRN 11825 and 11884)
 Meetings Days:  This is asynchronous online.  This is an online course so you are expected to check announcements daily for any updates or changes as they will be posted there. This is the communication format for general information so please plan to log in daily.
 Course Dates: May 27-August 3
Location: online
Semester: Summer 2025
Instructor Information
Instructor: Tracy Lee
Instructor Email: tracy.lee@pikespeak.edu
Office Telephone:  719-502-3425
Office Hours: (please schedule an appointment)
Division Office: F-252
Important Dates
    • Classes Start:  Tuesday May 27
    • Drop Date: June 5
    • Withdrawal Date: July 22
    • Holidays:  Juneteenth June 19th and July 4
    • Classes end: August 3
Course Description 
Focuses on an integrated study of the human body including the histology, anatomy, and physiology of each system. Examines molecular, cellular, and tissue levels of organization plus integuments, skeletal, articulations, muscular, and nervous systems. Includes a mandatory hands-on laboratory experience covering microscopy, observations, and dissection. This is the first semester of a two-semester sequence. This course is one of the Statewide Guaranteed Transfer courses. GT-SC1

For a complete list of course objectives see Part 1 master course syllabus
Prerequisite Course
 BIO 1111 (Grade of C or higher), Biology Placement Test with a score of 70 or higher, or Bio 1010 with a C or higher. 
Course Materials
Textbooks
    • Inclusive access to Fundamentals of A&P (11th ed) by Martini, Nath, and Bartholomew with modified MasteringBiology-You will need access to the online homework and study tools. 
    • Optional:  Human Anatomy & Physiology Laboratory Manual (12th ed) by Marieb and Smith
    • Optional but recommended:  Van de Graaff’s Photographic Atlas for the Anatomy & Physiology Laboratory (8th ed) by Morton and Crawley
    • Sheep brain dissection kit you must purchase from the bookstore or directly from Carolina (link will be provided in announcements during the first 2 weeks).  
Note:  If you are taking Bio 2102 online, you may consider saving your sheep brain or purchasing the sheep organ dissection kit and using the brain from it and then saving it for Bio 2102 online.
Additional Material
    • Mastering A&P (online) includes with your online text
    • BIO 1111 notes
    • Chapter objectives, lab practical guidelines, online resources, and pre-lab assignments available on D2L.
Internet Requirements
Please note that each student in this course will be required log in to d2L course access page to obtain course materials and to complete online pre-lab quizzes.  This is an online course, students must have access to a computer with sound and video capability as the use of the Respondus Lockdown browser will be required.   Students may use computers on campus, at home, or at other facilities that have internet access. 
Online Resources
Desire2Learn (D2L; also called “Daylight”)
    • (Can also be accessed through the PPSC Portal)
    • For D2L access, enter your S number and Password (the same password you use for registration)
    • Choose the course: BIO2101
MasteringA&P
This is included with the inclusive text.  You will find a tab under content that will allow you access.  
    • Course Expectations
General Course Objectives
This course will expose the student to the structure and function of the human body.  The student will understand the workings of the body’s individual systems, and how those systems integrate to support biological function. We will begin with the basics of anatomy followed by a brief review of BIO 111 material.  Then we will cover histology and begin our in-depth discussion of the body’s systems with the integument, followed by the skeletal and muscular systems.  We will finish with neurophysiology and an introduction to the nervous system.
Lab Objectives
Identify and describe the major anatomical and physiological concepts emphasized in the lab activities.  Locate and identify the organs and structures of the human body, their major features and landmarks, and discuss their individual functions and functional relationship to the rest of the body.
Course Guidelines
Each week, approximately 3 hours will be devoted to lecture/discussion and 2 hours to laboratory activities. The lecture portion of this course represents 60% of the course grade. This will be assessed through exams based on lecture material. There will be 4 exams worth 100 points each. There will also be a cumulative final exam worth 200 points.  Lecture and class discussion will be used to present and develop the topics in this course.  Study material will be found in the required text, post Lab Handouts, your lecture notes, chapter objectives, and any supplemental resources.
Lab Guidelines
The lab portion of this course represents 40% of the course grade.  This will be assessed in the following ways: completion of 10 pre-lab/Lab quizzes (worth10 points each), participation                                                                                                                                       in lab activities, and completion of 5 practical exams worth 50 points each.  All lab activities
must be completed during the scheduled time frame (there are no make-up labs).  
Classroom Attendance Policy
1.  Attendance will be taken each week (lecture via online activities and online lab activities).   Experience has shown a correlation between successful completion of the course and good attendance/participation. 
3.  Missed assignments and online quizzes will not be able to be made up. Lab work cannot be made up. 
4.  Participation alone is not enough.  You must be prepared to benefit from the experiences provided by reading the chapters and doing all online quizzes and all homework. Since a great deal of information is covered during each week, watching lectures, study, and note taking are essential for success in this course.
5.  You are responsible to know any changes to dates that may occur.  They will be posted on the announcements page.
NOTE:  Exams and practicals will occur only on the days indicated in the schedule. You have chosen an online class and are expected to have the technology to fully participate in an online format.  Students wishing to use accommodations must have approval from Accessibility Services, and accommodations are only given in the Testing Center/Accessibility Services. Any student eligible for academic accommodations due to a disability, or would like to consult with a disability specialist, should contact the ACCESSibility Services Department at 502-3333 or visit the Webpage additional information. . There are NO retakes of exams or practicals. Missed exams will be counted as a “zero.” For extreme circumstances only, a student may be able to take a lecture exam at a different time, but this needs to be arranged with the instructor BEFORE the scheduled date of the exam. Students must complete the makeup exam (if arranged) within 1 week of when the class completed the exam if the testing center option is available. Students will not be allowed open access to  exam answers and will need to make an appointment to review them. Final exams will not be given after the scheduled in class final exam time. 
For Testing:  Cell phones must not be present in the testing room.   For lecture exams online you must use the Respondus lockdown browser for testing.  It is not compatible with Chromebook.  You must have a camera.  There are computers set up in A300 at Centennial Campus.  If you do not have the technology needed at home, please plan to take your exam on campus.   You have chosen an online course and must have the appropriate internet access to test.  Loss of internet access is not a sufficient reason for non-completion of exams.  If your phone is seen or heard in during the exam or on your person /desk you will receive a 0.  If you get flagged for cheating or fail to follow the Respondus testing rules, you will receive a 0 on that exam.  You will be using the Respondus lock down browser for all exams and Practicals.

Rules for Respondus:
    1.  If you get flagged for cheating, you will receive a 0 on your exam or practical and reported to the Dean. 
    2. You must have your entire face on the camera.  
    3. You need to sit back enough that your upper body can be seen throughout the exam.
    4. You to keep your eyes on the computer.  If you appear to be looking at material or resources to the right or left of your computer screen, you will receive a 0 on your exam or practical.
    5. You may not read your exam questions out loud. 

Classroom Civility
It is a school policy that students are not allowed to disturb the learning environment of other students.  Failure to follow these school policies will affect your grade and may result in an Administrative Withdrawal (AW). Review the  in Institutional syllabus for college policy for your course. 
Testing
During testing (lecture AND lab), electronic devices (except the testing computer) should be out of the room.  No music headphones are allowed. No calculators may be used.  Once the exam has started, you may not leave the room or interrupt your Respondus Video for any reason unless you are finished with the exam.  If you do not have one continuous video and have your video turned on for the entire exam, you will receive a 0.  You will be required to follow the Respondus testing rules listed above.  If you do not agree to do so, you should choose a face-to-face course.

Communication with Instructor
I encourage you to communicate with me with any concerns or questions. Email is the best way to contact me. Use my pikespeak.edu address listed on the first page of this syllabus. Please use your student CCCU.edu address. Pertinent announcements will be posted on the D2L course homepage under “Announcements”.

Quizzes 
Approximately 9 prelab Quizzes taken on d2l
Homework
MAP= Mastering A &P which is the online Pearson Homework
Post labs
Lab Quizzes (labeled Prelab Quizzes on d2l) 
Discussions 
Exams
4 lecture exams
1 final exam
5 lab Practicals
*Subject to change at the instructor’s discretion.

Late Policy
No assignments will be accepted late without documentation of an emergency (doctor’s note or similar documentation) and will be considered on a case-by-case basis.

Extra Credit Options
Some extra points are offered for bonus questions on some Practicals.  One 10-point make-up assignment will be offered towards the very end of the semester.  It can only replace another 10-point assignment.

Assignments Point Value
Assignments	Point Values
Quizzes	10 points each (#9)
Exams	100 points each (#4)
200 for the final
Assignments	-Pearson (MAP) Approximately 117 points.

Labs	10 points each (Approx 10)
Histology post lab 40 points
50 points each lab Practical (#5)
Discussions	Approximately  7 at 10 points each.
*Subject to change at the instructor’s discretion.


Students may access their grades on PPCC Online (D2L).
Grading Scale: To calculate the points needed multiply the total points by .9 for and A etc....
Institutional Syllabus & Student Services
Institutional policies regarding academic honesty, plagiarism, student conduct, accreditation, Americans with Disabilities Act, assessment, classroom attendance policy, course evaluation, grading, withdrawals, incomplete grades, grade change requests, and student concerns are found in institutional syllabus available at PPSC, such as ACCESSibility services, student services, tutoring, advising, financial aid, scholarship opportunities, military and veteran programs, and many more.  
Academic Honesty
Plagiarism and cheating will not be tolerated and will result in a zero on the assignment. The dean of students will also be notified as well.
Academic Honesty
Plagiarism and cheating will not be tolerated and will result in a zero on the assignment. The dean of students will also be notified as well.
Lecture Schedule (May be changed by instructor if needed).  Please Note that the syllabus is listed by WEEK OF.   
1.  MAP is always due on Sunday night at 11:59 pm
2.  Pre-lab Quizzes are always due by Sunday night at 11:59 pm
3.  Discussions (if assigned) have the first post due on Thursday nights and the replies due by Sunday night at 11:59 pm. 
4.  Post labs are always due at 11:59 pm on Sunday night of the week posted.
*All Lab Practicals and Prelab Quiz #4 and #5 will be hand graded. 
 



